Project name: Remote Desktop Sharing and Control. 
Place: Institute of Informatics and communication, University of Delhi South Campus, New Delhi.

Remote Desktop Control Application is a client/server software package allowing remote network access to graphical desktop.
This application enables one to get a view of the remote machine desktop and thus control it with a local mouse and a keyboard. It can be used to perform remote system control and administration tasks in Unix, Windows and other assorted network environments.
This application requires a TCP/IP connection between the server and the viewer (client), which works on LANs. Each computer has a unique IP address and may also have a name in the DNS. User will need to know the IP address or name of the server when a viewer wants to connect to it. The initial handshaking consists of Client Initialization and Server Initialization messages. When the connection between a client and a server is first established, the server begins by requesting authentication from the client using a challenge-response scheme, which typically results in the user being prompted for a password at the client end.
The server is designed to make the client as simple as possible, so it is usually up to the server to perform any necessary translations. Each desktop is like a virtual X display, with a root window on which several X applications can be displayed. Servers mirror the real display to a remote client, which means that the server is not ‘multi-user’. It does, however, provide the primary user of a PC with remote access to their desktop. The server processing includes retrieving the Desktop Image and sending it.
The input side is based on a standard workstation model of a keyboard, and multi-button pointing device. Input events are sent to the server by the client whenever the user presses a key or whenever the mouse is moved. It also requests of all the possible specific parameters that a server can handle, for instance the color mode, pointer events and so on.
